# Campaign For Real Ale Wigan Branch Constitution

## 1. Name

The name shall be the "Campaign for Real Ale Wigan Branch" hereinafter called
"the Branch".

## 2. Object

The objects shall be to support the aims and objectives of the Campaign for
Real Ale Limited (hereinafter called "CAMRA") within the geographical areas
covered by the Branch in Greater Manchester and Lancashire [post codes WN1 to
WN6 and WN8 and L40 (Bispham Green)].

## 3. Regulations

The Branch shall observe the Regulations for Branches laid down from time to
time by the Directors of CAMRA. Policy decisions of a general meeting of CAMRA
or its Directors shall be binding on the Branch.

## 4. Membership

Any member of CAMRA living within the geographical area of the Branch is
entitled to be a member of the Branch. Any other member of CAMRA living outside
the Branch geographical area may apply to become a member of the CAMRA Wigan
Branch subject to the approval of the Branch Committee. The Branch committee
may refuse membership of the Branch from a member outwith the Branchâ€™s
geographical area without assigning any reason.

If any member of the Branch shall cease to be a member of CAMRA his membership
of the Branch shall automatically terminate.

## 5. Branch Meetings

The Branch Committee shall normally hold a monthly meeting open to all Branch
members. The Branch Committee may feel a need to hold a closed meeting for
Branch Committee members only. This should be done on an ad-hoc basis and only
called when necessary to progress specific aspects of Branch business. The
Branch Committee and any member of the Branch may put forward resolutions or
bye-laws at such meetings to be discussed and voted upon. For the meeting to be
quorate there shall not be less than 4 members of the Branch Committee in
attendance.

## 6. Annual General Meetings

An Annual General Meeting shall be held once in every year, and not more than
fifteen months shall elapse between one Annual General Meeting and the next.
Only members of the Branch and the Directors of CAMRA or their duly appointed
representatives shall be entitled to vote at the Branch Annual General Meeting.
The business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting shall include:-

* The approval of the Accounts of the Branch
* The election of officials and Committee
* Appointment of Brewery Liaison Officer(s)
* Appointment of Marketing Officer
* Apointment of Webmaster
* Appointment of Auditors
* AOB

## 7. Special General Meetings

A Special General Meeting of the Branch may be called only on the decision of a
majority number of the Branch Committee, on written request signed by 5 members
of the Branch, or by the Directors of CAMRA. At least 21 clear days notice of
such a Special General Meeting shall be given to all members of the Branch and
the Directors of CAMRA by post or by a CAMRA publication which in the ordinary
course of events will give sufficient notice. Only persons entitled to vote at
a Branch Annual General Meeting shall be entitled to vote at a Special General
Meeting.

## 8. Branch Committee

The Branch Committee shall consist of a total of 7 members these being the
elected Chairmperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Treasurer, Membership
Secretary, and a minimum of 2 other members, subject to such other guidelines
for membership of the Committee as shall have been laid down by the Directors
of CAMRA or at a General Meeting of CAMRA. The Committee members shall be
elected at and hold office from one Annual General Meeting to the next, when
they shall be eligible for re-election. Any member of CAMRA who is a member of
the Branch may serve on the Committee provided that he is not already on the
committee of any other Branch of CAMRA.

The Branch Committee shall be empowered to fill by co-option from the Branch
membership any casual vacancy which arises during the year. The Branch
Committee shall undertake the general conduct of the affairs of the Branch.

In the event of the resignation of an entire Branch Committee the Directors of
CAMRA will appoint such interim officers as may be necessary to manage the
affairs of the Branch until a General Meeting of the Branch can be properly
convened.

## 9. Sub-Committees

As required the Branch may establish sub-committees to address specific branch
business matters. Membership of these sub-committees will be drawn from within
existing committee members and any such co-opted members required. There will
be a standard requirement for at least two sub-committees these being one for
the annual Wigan Beer Festival organisation and an Editorial/ Media
sub-committees dealing with branch printed publications and website. Other
commitees will be formed when deemed necessary by the Branch.

## 10. Elections

Nominations for Officer posts and posts on the Branch Committee shall be in
writing, signed by a proposer and seconder, both of whom shall be members of
the Branch, and accompanied by evidence of the willingness of the nominee to
stand. If posts are not contested those supplying the written nomination will
be appointed to the post. If a post is contested then a vote will be taken at
the AGM or special meeting to decide who will fulfil the role. Verbal
nominations at the AGM or Special Meeting will only be accepted for vacant
positions where no written nomination has been received.

## 11. Appointments

The Branch will ask for volunteers from the membership to be appointed to be
Webmaster, Marketing Officer and Brewery Liaison Officer(s). If a substantive
Branch Officer post is unfilled and there is no one willing to be co-opted for
the full range of duties by the Branch, the Committee can appoint an
assistant(s) to the post who is/are willing to undertake the most important
aspects of the job until the post can be filled.

## 12. Finances

The financial year of the Branch shall commence on the first day of January in
each year. The assets of the Branch shall be under the control of the Branch
Committee and no payments shall be made out of the Branch monies except by
authority of the Branch Committee. The Branch Committee shall ensure that the
Treasurer keeps proper books of Account and that all monies received are placed
to the credit of an Account in the name of the Branch at such Bank as the
Committee may from time to time select.

Branch funds of any UK Branch shall not be deposited or held in Bank or other
Accounts (whether interest bearing or not) located outside of the United
Kingdom. (e.g. not to be in IOM or Channel Island Bank Accounts.)

Branch funds of any UK Branch, if deposited in interest paying accounts, will
be made only in institutions where UK tax is deducted at source.

All cheques and other orders relating to the Bank Account shall be signed by
the Treasurer and one of two other members of the Committee appointed by the
Committee for that purpose.

All books relating to the finances of the Branch shall be produced to the
Directors of CAMRA or their duly authorised representative on demand, on seven
days clear notice to the Branch.

## 13. Audit

The Accounts of the Branch in each year shall be audited either by a
professional auditor or by two members of CAMRA, neither of whom shall be a
member of any Branch Committee nor a Director of CAMRA.

The Accounts drawn up shall include combined Profit and Loss accounts and
Balance Sheets indicating all monies held by the Branch or on behalf of the
Branch relating to all activities including Beer Festivals and publications
run by the Branch.

Two copies of the audited Accounts shall be lodged with CAMRA at its Registered
Office and with the Regional Director in whose region the Branch is situated
within one month of the date of the Annual General Meeting. 

# 14. Bye Laws

The Branch Committee shall have power (unless and until overruled by the Branch
in General Meeting) to adopt Bye-Laws for the better furtherance of the objects
of the Branch.

## 15. Winding Up

The Branch may be wound up at any time by the Directors of CAMRA or by a
Special General Meeting called for that purpose, the business having been
notified in the notice convening the same, and upon a resolution to that effect
being passed by a majority of at least two thirds of those present and entitled 
to vote.

Upon dissolution the assets shall be used firstly to pay off all proper
liabilities of the Branch and any surplus thereafter shall be paid to CAMRA. If
the Branch membership falls below 25 the Branch may be wound up.

## 16. Alteration to Constitution

This Constitution may be altered only at an Annual General Meeting or Special
General Meeting called for that purpose, with the specific alteration having
been stipulated in the notice convening the same and subject to the approval of
at least two thirds of those present and entitled to vote.

Before any such alteration shall become effective it shall be approved by the
Directors of CAMRA or their duly authorised representative.

## 17. Notice

The accidental omission to give notice of any meeting to any person entitled to
such a notice shall not invalidate any proceedings at the meeting.
